# Introduction to computational logic

Explore the core of software development in this chapter on computational logic. Gain the insights needed to craft sophisticated algorithms and solve complex problems, laying a solid foundation for advanced programming techniques.


## Gemini/ChatGPT Queries

- Explain computational thinking and its importance in programming.

- Let's dig into the decomposition and provide more examples relevant for resolving programming problems.

- Let's dig into the pattern recognition and provide more examples relevant for resolving programming problems.

- Let's dig into the ‘abstraction’ and provide more examples relevant for resolving programming problems.

- Explain Algorithms in the computational thinking world.

- Provide some examples of Algorithms in natural language for simple mathematical and non mathematical problems.


## Exercise

Create an algorithm, in natural language, for sorting the following list of numbers: `[5, 3, 8, 1, 2]`. 

Create an algorithm, in natural language, for finding the most frequent Item in the following list:` ["apple", "banana", "apple", "orange", "banana", "apple"].`

Create an algorithm, in natural language, for generating the first 10 numbers of the Fibonacci sequence (0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, ...).

Create an algorithm, in natural language, for checking if a word is a palindrome (reads the same backward as forward), e.g., "radar".


## Knowledge Check

Explain the concept of decomposition

Explain the concept of pattern recognition

Can you provide examples of Algorithms?


[Next](https://github.com/InfiniteLearnJourney/ProgrammingCorePrinciples/blob/main/guide/07.%20Flowcharts%20and%20pseudocode.md) - [Index](https://github.com/InfiniteLearnJourney/ProgrammingCorePrinciples/blob/main/guide/00.%20index.md)