# Iteration statement 

This chapter introduces iteration statements (for and while loops). Master the techniques for controlling repetition within your code.


## Gemini/ChatGPT Queries

- Let’s dig into the iteration statement, why is it important?

- List all types of iterations statements and provide use cases for each one.

- What’s the difference between “while” and “do while”?

- Explain the “continue” and “break” concept for iteration statements.

- Provide examples of “for” loops in pseudocode and flowchart. 

- Provide examples of “while” loops in pseudocode and flowchart. 

- Provide examples of “do while” loops in pseudocode and flowchart. 

- Provide examples of loops with the “continue” statement in pseudocode and flowchart. 

- Provide examples of loops with the “break” statement in pseudocode and flowchart. 


## Exercise

Create a program in pseudo code that sums the first 1000 integer positive odds numbers. Create three versions, one with the “for” one with the “while” another one with the “do while” loop.

Create a program in pseudo code that, given two variables with a number (assigned randomly), identifies the lowest common denominator.


## Knowledge Check

Explain the difference between “for” and “do while”.

List some cases when to use the “break” in a “for” loop.


[Next](https://github.com/InfiniteLearnJourney/ProgrammingCorePrinciples/blob/main/guide/12.%20Strings.md) - [Index](https://github.com/InfiniteLearnJourney/ProgrammingCorePrinciples/blob/main/guide/00.%20index.md)