# Array and List

This chapter lays the foundation for working with Array and List, a crucial skill for every programmer. They are the backbone of many advanced algorithms and data structures.


## Gemini/ChatGPT Queries

- Explain what an array is in a programming language.

- Why and when should I use arrays? 

- Provide examples of small programs in pseudocode and flowchart that use arrays of various types.

- What if I don’t have a fixed number of values? Explain the List type.

- Which are the general main differences in terms of creation, processing and memory footprint between arrays and lists? 

- Provide examples of small programs in pseudocode and flowchart that use Lists of various types.

- Which alternatives there are to arrays and lists? Provides the differences and use cases examples.


## Exercise

Create a program in pseudo code that, given an array of integers (with random values), sort it in ascending order (tip, look for bubble sort, selection sort or alternatives).


## Knowledge Check

Explain in simple terms what is an array and what’s the difference from a set.

Which data occupies more memory, an array of 10 integers or a list of 10 integers? 

Is it faster accessing the latest element of an array or the latest element of a linked list?


[Next](https://github.com/InfiniteLearnJourney/ProgrammingCorePrinciples/blob/main/guide/14.%20Functions.md) - [Index](https://github.com/InfiniteLearnJourney/ProgrammingCorePrinciples/blob/main/guide/00.%20index.md)