# Functions

We have been exploring the 'atoms' of software development, the essential building blocks for any programmer. But beyond these fundamentals lie advanced algorithms, data structures, databases, design patterns, and design architectures—exciting topics that you will undoubtedly explore in your future studies. Before we proceed, let's conclude our discussion of the basics with an in-depth look at functions, marking the end of our journey through procedural software architecture.


## Gemini/ChatGPT Queries

- Explain what “functions” are in programming languages and how they can be useful.

- Let's dig into their definition, explain the parameters/arguments and the return result.

- Explain what happens when I create and use variables inside a function. Define the variables “scope” concept.

- Explain the various types of parameters, can I use them as variables in the function? What happens when I change them inside and outside the function? Provide examples of the various types and scenarios.

- Provides multiple examples of logic broken down in functions, in pseudocode, for mathematical and non mathematical problems.

- Explain at high level what happens when calling multiple functions, sequentially, in parallel and nested.

- Explain recursion, pros and cons, when I should use and when to avoid. Provide some examples of simple algorithm implemented using recursion vs the same one implemented using iterations statements


## Exercise

Create a program in pseudocode that given an array of strings provides all possible permutations.


## Knowledge Check

Can you explain what a function is in simple terms?

Can you explain the difference between “by value” and “by reference”?

Explain the difference between recursion and nested calling functions.


[Next](https://github.com/InfiniteLearnJourney/ProgrammingCorePrinciples/blob/main/guide/15.%20Looking%20forward%20to%20your%20next%20studies.md) - [Index](https://github.com/InfiniteLearnJourney/ProgrammingCorePrinciples/blob/main/guide/00.%20index.md)