# Looking forward to your next studies

The journey thus far has introduced us to the core principles of software programming, indispensable for anyone aspiring to master the art. But there's more to becoming a software developer than these foundational skills. This chapter will outline the essential next steps: diving into algorithms and data structures, exploring the realms of modern software architectures, and selecting a programming language to apply your burgeoning skills. From here, your learning should never cease. Whether your interest lies in specialising in a particular software solution, such as mobile development, or in becoming a full-stack engineer, your path will evolve with time and experience. Start with what interests you the most.


## Gemini/ChatGPT Queries

- List the advanced algorithm and data structure I need to know as a developer.

- Provide possible real cases when some of these advanced algorithms and data structures are required.

- What is object oriented programming and what’s the difference from procedural software? 

- Provide high level examples, in pseudocode, of software solutions built using object oriented programming, for both mathematical and non mathematical problems. 

- What is functional programming and what’s the difference from OOP and Procedural? 

- Provide high level examples, in pseudocode, of software solutions built using functional programming, for both mathematical and non mathematical problems. 

- Why and when should I use OOP or Functional programming?

- List the major programming languages being used and requested now, which types are they and what are their main use cases.

- Provide a high level introduction to databases and now are they used in modern software development?

- Provide the types of modern software solutions available, i.e. Web applications, enterprise solutions, SaaS, mobile, embedded, etc. 

- Can you describe cloud computing and IoT?

- What is secure code programming and why is it so important? 


## Knowledge Check

Can you define the path forward for your studying?

[Index](https://github.com/InfiniteLearnJourney/ProgrammingCorePrinciples/blob/main/guide/00.%20index.md) - [Home](https://github.com/InfiniteLearnJourney/ProgrammingCorePrinciples/tree/main)